+++

title = "Ankyrin-B p.S646F undergoes increased proteasome degradation and reduces cell viability in the H9c2 rat ventricular cardiomyoblast cell line"

# Date first published.
date = "2020-01-22"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lena Chen, Catherine S. W. Choi, Juan C. Sanchez-Arias, Laura T. Arbour, Leigh Anne Swayn"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
#publication = ""
publication_short = "Biochemistry and Cell Biology"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Ankyrin-B (AnkB) is scaffolding protein that anchors integral membrane proteins to the cardiomyocyte cytoskeleton. We recently identified an AnkB variant, AnkB p.S646F (ANK2 c.1937 C>T) associated with a phenotype ranging from predisposition for cardiac arrhythmia to cardiomyopathy. AnkB p.S646F exhibited reduced expression levels in the H9c2 rat ventricular-derived cardiomyoblast cell line relative to wildtype AnkB. Here, we demonstrate that AnkB is regulated by proteasomal degradation and proteasome inhibition rescues AnkB p.S646F expression levels in H9c2 cells, although this effect is not conserved with differentiation. We also compared the impact of wildtype AnkB and AnkB p.S646F on cell viability and proliferation. AnkB p.S646F expression resulted in decreased cell viability at 30 h after transfection, whereas we observed a greater proportion of cycling, Ki67-positive cells at 48 h after transfection. Notably, the number of GFP-positive cells was low and was consistent between wildtype AnkB and AnkB p.S646F expressing cells, suggesting that AnkB and AnkB p.S646F affected paracrine communication between H9c2 cells differentially. This work reveals that AnkB levels are regulated by the proteasome and that AnkB p.S646F compromises cell viability. Together, these findings provide key new insights into the putative cellular and molecular mechanisms of AnkB-related cardiac disease."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.nrcresearchpress.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1139/bcb-2019-0082"
url_preprint = "https://dspace.library.uvic.ca/handle/1828/11325"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://www.nrcresearchpress.com/doi/10.1139/bcb-2019-0082"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "https://www.nrcresearchpress.com/na101/home/literatum/publisher/nrc/journals/content/bcb/0/bcb.ahead-of-print/bcb-2019-0082/20200123/images/large/bcb-2019-0082f5.jpeg"
caption = "Chen et al, 2020 in Biochemistry and Cell Biology"
+++
