+++

title = "Ankyrin B and Ankyrin B variants differentially modulate intracellular and surface Cav2.1 levels"

# Date first published.
date = "2019-09-02"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Catherine SW Choi", "Ivana A. Souza", "Juan C. Sanchez-Arias", "Gerald W. Zamponi", "Laura T. Arbour","Leigh Anne Swayne"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
#publication = ""
publication_short = "In *eNeuro*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Ankyrin B (AnkB) is an adaptor and scaffold for motor proteins and various ion channels that is ubiquitously expressed, including in the brain. AnkB has been associated with neurological disorders such as epilepsy and autism spectrum disorder, but understanding of the underlying mechanisms is limited. Cav2.1, the pore-forming subunit of P/Q type voltage gated calcium channels, is a known interactor of AnkB and plays a crucial role in neuronal function. Here we report that wildtype AnkB increased overall Cav2.1 levels without impacting surface Cav2.1 levels in HEK293T cells. An AnkB variant, p.S646F, which we recently discovered to be associated with seizures, further increased overall Cav2.1 levels, again with no impact on surface Cav2.1 levels. AnkB p.Q879R, on the other hand, increased surface Cav2.1 levels in the presence of accessory subunits α2δ1 and β4. Additionally, AnkB p.E1458G decreased surface Cav2.1 irrespective of the presence of accessory subunits. In addition, we found that partial deletion of AnkB in cortex resulted in a decrease in overall Cav2.1 levels, with no change to the levels of Cav2.1 detected in synaptosome fractions. Our work suggests that depending on the particular variant, AnkB regulates intracellular and surface Cav2.1. Notably, expression of the AnkB variant associated with seizure (AnkB p.S646F) caused further increase in intracellular Cav2.1 levels above that of even wildtype AnkB. These novel findings have important implications for understanding the role of AnkB and Cav2.1 in the regulation of neuronal function in health and disease."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "https://media.springernature.com/lw685/springer-static/image/art%3A10.1186%2Fs13041-019-0494-8/MediaObjects/13041_2019_494_Fig7_HTML.png?as=webp"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://molecularbrain.biomedcentral.com/track/pdf/10.1186/s13041-019-0494-8"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://molecularbrain.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13041-019-0494-8"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "https://media.springernature.com/lw685/springer-static/image/art%3A10.1186%2Fs13041-019-0494-8/MediaObjects/13041_2019_494_Fig7_HTML.png?as=webp"
caption = "Choi et al, 2019 in Molecular Brain"
+++
