+++

title = "A novel motif in the proximal C-terminus of Pannexin 1 regulates cell surface localization"

# Date first published.
date = "2019-07-05"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Anna L. Epp", "Sarah Ebert", "Juan C. Sanchez-Arias", "Leigh E. Wicki-Stordeur", "Andrew KJ Boyce" "Leigh Anne Swayne"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
#publication = ""
publication_short = "In *Scientific Reports*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The Pannexin 1 (Panx1) ion and metabolite channel is expressed in a wide variety of cells where it regulates a number of cell behaviours including proliferation and differentiation. Panx1 is expressed on the cell surface as well as intracellular membranes. Previous work suggests that a region within the proximal Panx1 C-terminus (Panx1CT) regulates cell surface localization. Here we report the discovery of a putative leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif in the proximal Panx1CT necessary for Panx1 cell surface expression in HEK293T cells. Deletion of the putative LRR motif results in significant loss of Panx1 cell surface distribution. Outcomes of complementary cell surface oligomerization and glycosylation state analyses were consistent with reduced cell surface expression of Panx1 LRR deletion mutants. Of note, the oligomerization analysis revealed the presence of putative dimers and trimers of Panx1 at the cell surface. Expression of Panx1 increased HEK293T cell growth and reduced doubling time, while expression of a Panx1 LRR deletion mutant (highly conserved segment) did not reproduce this effect. In summary, here we discovered the presence of a putative LRR motif in the Panx1CT that impacts on Panx1 cell surface localization. Overall these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying C-terminal regulation of Panx1 trafficking and raise potential new lines of investigation with respect to Panx1 oligomerization and glycosylation."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "/pubs/2019SA_eNeuro.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-46144-5.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-46144-5#article-info"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "https://media.springernature.com/full/springer-static/image/art%3A10.1038%2Fs41598-019-46144-5/MediaObjects/41598_2019_46144_Fig1_HTML.png?as=webp"
caption = "Epp et al 2019, Scientific Reports"
+++
